# AntColonyOptimization
This programming exercise is concerned with an investigation into and applications of swarm intelligence or Ant algorithms. Swarm intelligence is a term describing the collective behaviour that emerges from groups of social insects such as ants. There has been a lot of research over the past 10 years or so into the application of Ant algorithms to the solution of discrete optimization problems. It has been long recognised in the natural world how swarms of ants are able to find the shortest path between the nest and a food source by communicating via pheromone, a chemical substance that attracts other ants. The key point about this is that there is no direct communication from ant to ant, something that would be extremely inefficient given the large numbers of insects in a swarm. Instead, communication is indirect and efficient in the sense that ants passing over a region pick-up the local pheromone density which is proportional to the number of ants that have previously passed over the same region. 

The aim of this programming exercise is to write a program to illustrate how a basic swarm intelligence algorithm, specifically one based on the Ant Colony Optimization (ACO) algorithm, can be used to solve a challenging discrete optimisation problem. Objectives will be to develop Java classes to implement the ACO algorithm with application to the famous Travelling Salesman Problem (TSP), a classic and much studied discrete optimisation problem. The general descriptions of both the ACO algorithm, including extensions to improve performance and the TSP to fit them together and provide an implementation of the ACO, which is applicable to the TSP. 

